# Rust Dist Cloud Native Buildpack

The Rust Dist CNB provides the Rust stand-alone distribution. The buildpack
installs the Rust stand-alone distribution onto the $PATH which makes it available for
subsequent buildpacks. These buildpacks can then use that distribution to build
Rust projects. The Rust Cargo CNB is an example of a buildpack that utilizes the Rust
build tools.

## Configuration

### BP_RUST_VERSION

As a user of the buildpack, you may specify which version of Rust gets installed by setting this environment variable at build time. The version you specify must exist in the `buildpack.toml` file or you will get an error.

Ex: `pack build -e BP_RUST_VERSION=1.49.0 ...`

## Integration

The Rust Dist CNB provides Rust as a dependency. Downstream buildpacks, like
[Rust Cargo CNB](https://github.com/paketo-community/cargo-install) can require the `rust`
dependency by generating a [Build Plan
TOML](https://github.com/buildpacks/spec/blob/master/buildpack.md#build-plan-toml)
file that looks like the following:

```toml
[[requires]]

  # The name of the Rust dependency is "rust". This value is considered
  # part of the public API for the buildpack and will not change without a plan
  # for deprecation.
  name = "rust"

  # The version of the Rust dependency is not required. In the case it
  # is not specified, the buildpack will provide the latest stable version, 
  # which can be seen in the buildpack.toml file.
  version = "1.50.0"
```

## Usage

In general, [you probably want the rust CNB instead](https://github.com/paketo-community/rust/#tldr). If you want to use this particular CNB directly, the easiest way is via image.

Run `pack build -b paketocommunity/rust-dist:<version> ...`. Alternatively, follow the instructions in the next section to build locally and `pack build -b rust-dist_xxxx` (folder generated by the build script). The latter is useful when developing.

## Building

To package this buildpack for consumption:

```bash
$ ./scripts/package.sh
```

This builds the buildpack's Go source using GOOS=linux by default. You can supply another value as the first argument to package.sh.
